---
layout: post
title: "Sweet Sixteen"
date: 2019-04-19
---

I’d been sixteen years old for a few weeks and nothing had happened. Sixteen was the age when I could legally have sex. Sixteen was the age when I could legally smoke. I’d done neither of these things. A few weeks-in and sixteen was not living up to the hype.

It was early 1997. I was a young man living in the middle of England. In Loughborough, to be precise. I’d smoked once at a playground for a dare when very young, but had run-home and told my parents straight away. I was let-off for being honest and didn’t do it again. I’d definitely not had sex. I was a straight-A student, in the swim team. I’d studied hard, trained hard, and behaved myself. It felt as though life owed me some kind of recognition of this when I turned sixteen. It felt as though something should happen.

Nothing happened. Life didn’t care that I was sixteen. I was some lanky teenager in the Midlands. So I decided that I’d make something happen, since I did care.

One Saturday not long after my sixteenth birthday I headed into town. Loughborough town centre is cut-through the centre by a road going from the south, to the north. In 1997 there was a tobacconist at the southern tip of this road, before the main strip of shops began. I'd been inside with a friend buying a new lighter. The interior of this shop smelt great. Rich and exotic and adult. So this Saturday I walked into the tobacconist and asked for a single cigar, please. The woman serving me didn’t blink and asked which one? I had no clue so asked which one would be best to for someone who hadn’t smoked cigars before? She suggested one, cut the end for me, and added some cigar matches at my request. I paid and left.

I’d lived in Loughborough all my life and knew its secret paths and back alleys. I knew of routes for someone who wanted a quiet smoke, uninterrupted by other people and prying eyes. I headed off from the tobacconist towards the train station. then carried on past the station to the Brush. The Brush was a factory that used to be the jewel in the crown of the town but by now had seen better days, after lay-offs and diminishing production. But the Brush was hanging on in there and sat at the outskirt of town before the villages and countryside began. I walked past the Brush into fields, finally taking a small path at a right-angle to the road. I looked around. Not. A. Soul. Removing the cigar from its case, I lit it with a match whilst sucking on it, taking care not to inhale. - Chewing the smoke in my mouth. Copying scenes from films I’d seen. Cigar lit, I belatedly marked my sixteenth birthday.

The effects of the cigar spread across my mind. It felt good. I felt relaxed. Magnanimous in the face of life's indifference. 

Gravel crunched under foot, interspersed with wet leaf mulch. I tapped ash onto the ground. Leaving the road behind I watched fields stretch out in front of me, gridded by fences and bushes. Great pylons strode across the land. I’d walked this path plenty of times before but the cigar smoke that clung around me on this day made it feel special and new. Turning a corner I saw a field of cows, stood doing their thing. I paused to re-light my cigar. As the smoke cleared I realised I was being watched by a bull in the next field along. His eyes held my gaze and I wondered what he was thinking. I wondered what he saw when he looked at me. ‘Who’s this weird human kid with burning, dried leaves in his mouth that’s come to stare at me?’ Or maybe we were sharing a moment across the species divide, him in his field and me on my path? 

An aeroplane droned overhead. I realised that it was chilly and there was dampness in the air. My reverie came to an end. I carried on walking the path towards its conclusion, concentrating on my final few puffs of the cigar. Blowing the end to red embers and taking a final couple of drags, looking at myself smoking the cigar from a position above myself. I finally stubbed out the cigar on a fence post. I was not hardcore enough to smoke the whole thing, didn’t want to, didn’t need to. I threw the remainder in the tall grass towards the end of the path. Remerging from the fields near a road once more I smiled to myself and carried the memory of the walk with me for the rest of the day. I told noone that I was going to do. I told noone that I did it. It was just for me.  
